LEARN JQUERY: EFFECTS
Introduction
jQuery Effects are a group of methods in the jQuery library that are responsible for adding dynamic behavior to websites. You may have seen many of these effects on modern websites without even realizing it. For example, you are seeing jQuery Effects in action when drop-down menus slide into place or a warning message appears after entering an incorrect password.

While adding dynamic behavior is possible using only JavaScript, the code to do so is somewhat long and confusing. The beauty of jQuery is how one or two lines of jQuery can replace long JavaScript code blocks.

In this course, you’ll learn how to make elements appear and disappear, fade in and out, and slide around the page. Let’s get started!

Instructions
Click on some of the buttons on the website to the right. Test out the Menu and Login buttons, the arrows beneath each pair of shoes, and the shoe size buttons. Each button applies a different jQuery Effect!

LEARN JQUERY: EFFECTS
.hide()
The first tool you will add to your jQuery effects tool belt is the .hide() method. When you hide an element, your browser will render the HTML as if the hidden element does not exist. It will disappear from the page and the space that it was taking up will disappear as well. Take a look at the code below to learn how to use the .hide() method:

$('.hide-arrow').on('click', () => {
  $('.shoe-information').hide();
});
In the example above, the event handler gets triggered whenever an element with a class of hide-arrow is clicked. That element could be a button, some text, an image, or any other HTML element. When the event is triggered, we target all elements of the class shoe-information and call .hide() on them. Check out the gif below to see an example.

LEARN JQUERY: EFFECTS
.show()
Now that we’ve learned how to hide elements on our page, we want to know how to make them reappear. Luckily, the .show() method does the opposite of .hide(). If an element on your page is hidden, .show() will make it appear.

$('.show-arrow').on('click', () => {
  $('.shoe-information-2').show();
});
The code above should look similar to the code you wrote using .hide(). The only difference is that we are calling a different method on the targeted elements. This time we are calling the .show() method on the shoe’s textual information.

Check out the gif below to see .show() in action!


In this gif, all elements of class shoe-information-2 appear when an element of class show-arrow is clicked.




4. LEARN JQUERY: EFFECTS
.toggle()
Great work! Our table now has two buttons that hide and show our image. But wouldn’t it be nice to have one button do both? It is common for web pages to have one button that will either hide or show elements depending on their current state. We can achieve this by using the .toggle() method.

$('.toggle-button').on('click', () => {
  $('.shoe-information-3').toggle();
});
In the above code we call the .toggle() method on elements of class shoe-information-3. If the information is visible, clicking the .toggle-button will hide it, as if the following code were run.

$('.toggle-button').on('click', () => {
  $('.shoe-information-3').hide();
});
At the same time, if the shoe information is hidden, it will show itself as if the following code were run:

$('.toggle-button').on('click', () => {
  $('.shoe-information-3').show();
});
Take a look at the gif below to see the .toggle() method being called.


In this gif, the .toggle() method is called twice. The first time the arrow is clicked, .toggle() shows the shoe information because it was hidden. The second time the arrow is clicked, .toggle() hides the shoe information because the information was being shown. There’s no need to have a different button for .hide() and .show(); .toggle() can do both!



5. LEARN JQUERY: EFFECTS
fading
Great work! In this exercise, you will learn about two new methods that are similar to .hide() and .show(). Take a look at the gif below:


In this gif, the .fadeIn() method is called on an HTML element. Instead of instantly showing the element, .fadeIn() and .fadeOut() make the element appear or disappear over a given period of time. You can think of this as an animation. The transition between being visible and invisible happens over a duration of time.

Both .fadeIn() and .fadeOut() take an optional parameter that specifies how long the animation will take. For example, in the code below, all <div> elements will fade out over a period of 1000 milliseconds (or one second).

$('div').fadeOut(1000);
In the example above, the 1000 argument is optional; you don’t need to put a number between the parentheses. This number represents the number of milliseconds it takes for the animation to complete. If no argument is given, the default animation duration is 400 milliseconds.

Instructions
1.
We’ve added two new buttons and a new image to our table. We’ve also given you the event handlers for these new buttons. In the first new event handler’s callback function, select the image of class fade-image and call .fadeOut() on it.

Give .fadeOut() an argument to make the animation take 500 milliseconds.

Test the Fade Out button!

2.
In the second event handler’s callback function, select the same image and call .fadeIn() on it. Let’s make the image appear slower than it disappears. Give .fadeIn() a parameter of 4000.

Try out the Fade In button. You should notice that the image fades in much slower!
